---
layout: splash
title: " " 
permalink: /portfolio/sole/
date: 2021-01-21
header:
  image: /assets/images/sole_poster.jpg
---

## Sole Searching : Classifying Shoe Brand via CNN
*Edeza, Obrero, Pagobayan, Tabong (Asian Institute of Management)*

### Executive Summary
The use of articial intelligence and machine learning in law enforcement is nothing
new. In realm of the judiciary, natural language process techniques have been used
to predict the outcomes of judicial decisions[1]. However, the arti cial intelligence
can also be used to augment policework. This can take the form of unmanned
drones, tapping into data generated by the internet of things, and of course image
processing and identi cation[2]. This paper shall focus on the last one as it applies
to the identi cation of shoes based on shoe outsoles. It was found that the use of
convolutional neural networks can successfully identify shoeprints with an accuracy
of up to 97% [3]. In this paper however, we explore the concept of identifying the
brand of a shoe based solely on its print.

### Business Value
In countries like the Philippines, forensic science is still lags behind the modern
world. It is a painstakingly manual process that involves extensive documentations
and man hours to fully complete. For something like shoe print identi cation, a
process which requires the identi er to have signi cant background knowledge on
shoe brands and models, these issues are exacerbated. Using machine learning to
help cut down this time tremendously can help narrow down leads for investigators.
This helps remove at least one bottleneck in the investigative process. This will not
only help cut down processing time for police work, but also help the department
become more willing to work with data scientists. Additionally, it will help reduce
any human error which may lead to both resource wastage as well as wrongful
conviction. The development of a machine learning algorithm will therefore not just
have a business value but a societal value as well.


[1] Medvedeva, M., Vols, M., Wieling, M.: Using machine learning to predict decisions of the european court of
human rights. Artif Intell Law (2019)
[2] Campbell, T.: Opportunities and challenges from arti cial intelligence for law enforcement (2018)
[3] Li, C.: Shoe print identi cation from images with convolutional neural network (2018)

*Full text article and source codes can be provided upon request.*